# Encapsulin Bioinformatics

This repo contains python scripts and data produced during my PhD project on analysis of encapsulin protein sequences. Folders are organized as follows:

`Clustering/` - Code to cluster encapsulin sequences using KMeans Clustering, either based on manually derived features from protein sequences, or embeddings generated by ESM-1b.

`ESMInverseFolding/` - Scripts to generate encapsulin and other protein sequences using the ESM Inverse Folding model, as well as scripts to generate dataframes and analyze the resulting sequence data.

**NOTE:** These scripts are presented for review purposes, but due to time and space constraints I haven't included the data files required to run them. These are available on request.

## Archived Folders

The following folders are deprecated and contain old/outdated code, have been abandoned, or have been superseded by another part of the project:

`ESMSequenceGeneration/` - Old code experimenting with generating sequences by sampling from the ESM-1b model. This has been replaced by `ESMInverseFolding`.

`DiscriminatorModel/` - Fine tuning the ESM-1b model to discriminate generated encapsulin sequences from natural ones. I could never really get this model to work properly without overfitting and so it's here for archival purposes only.

`TNumberPrediction/` - This was my initial exploration of using ESM-1b embeddings to train machine learning models to classify encapsulin sequences based on their T-Number. I've shelved this work now since this part of the project is currently being worked on by other members of the group.
